Graduating CS undergrad here, inspired primarily by this post. Here's a comprehensive review of every undergraduate CS elective I took, just to help guide students through the process. A lot of the UCI CS hivemind likes to advertise courses such as CS 121 and CS 142A, but I tried to just follow my interests.

There are a lot of underrated classes that just never fill up at UCI, and I think a lot of them deserve more attention.

Note that this is coming from the perspective of a prospective graduate student and that my reviews are mostly specific to the quarter I took them in. My course opinions are mostly specific to my own interests, which are more geared toward theoretical computer science. Know that YMMV.

I typically evaluate courses on two primary criteria: how much I learned during the course and how engaging it was. I typically do not care for grades/GPA boosters, but if there is a notably unfavorable grade distribution for a course (>15% Ds or Fs, or <25% A- or higher), I will point it out.

Hope this helps. If needed, I can elaborate more on my experiences.

Name	Instructor	Recommend?	Notes
CS 122A - Introduction to Data Management	Nawab	If you intend to take CS 122B or CS 122C, sure. Otherwise, maybe not worth your time. It's not a bad course, but I reckon there's better options.	Not my cup of tea, but I know a lot of students find this to be an essential course to take. This class gives a brief introduction into the theory behind database design, focuses on how to write a SQL query, and ends on optimization techniques. The content in this course is good to know if you will be working with databases in the future. Lectures can be slow and awkwardly paced, and I found myself a little bored with how superficial some of the content was. It's not a bad course by any means, and it gets the job done, but it does leave me wanting a lot more than what I actually got out of it.
CS 122B - Project in Databases and Web Applications	Herold	If you like web development or intend to do industry work as a software engineer, this is a definite recommend. Otherwise, make sure you know what you're getting yourself into.	You spend 10 weeks creating Fabflix, which is effectively just IMDb from Temu — it’s a website where users can browse for movies and purchase them. You slowly build up all the small components over time with a partner, then record a video demo to showcase the functionality of the website. There is a key focus on keeping your website secure and scalable. Have some fun with it — you should definitely be doing more than the bare minimum. However, note that this course is undeniably heavy, and you should not go into it without having coordinated with a potential partner to work on this project with. Completing this project, in my opinion, is a massive accomplishment.
CS 141 - Concepts in Programming Languages	Klefstad	Depends on what you want out of the course. If you want a soft introduction to modern programming languages, it accomplishes the job perfectly. Otherwise, you might be disappointed.	This course, much like every other Klefstad course, has a lot of busywork and can be stressful to manage with all the constant deadlines. A lot of these assignments, in my opinion, don't accomplish that much, but if you stay on top of things, you shouldn't get overwhelmed. Content-wise, it’s pretty fun and interesting — you go over several principles of programming languages and the questions that shape their designs. It's a lot of breadth and not a lot of depth, so if you wanted an authentic course on programming language theory, I don't think this is the class for you. The highlight of this class is the extra credit assignment. If you're taking this course out of interest, please do this. It will expand your horizons coding up a past assignment in a new programming language, as you'll get to see how different languages are suited for different purposes, which is, in effect, one of the main takeaways of this course anyway. Note that there is a bare minimum performance expected of you on the quizzes and final to pass, regardless of your current grade in the course. Be wary of this.
CS 142A - Compilers and Interpreters	Demsky	If you're really into compilers, petition to skip this course and take CS 142B. This course's sluggish nature and oversimplified toy project will likely not satisfy your thirst. If you're just looking to dip your toes, this course does the job.	The first half of the course is pretty standard, and in my opinion, kind of uninteresting. The latter half of the course, which is entirely code generation, is where the course starts getting interesting. This is when you actually learn about ways to optimize code by removing dead code, reusing values as much as possible, and replacing variables with constants whenever possible. Then, you translate all that into assembly and allocate registers. When you think about what compilers do, this is probably what you think of. Unfortunately, you do none of that optimization in this course’s project, which comprises most of your grade. In my opinion, that's a lot of wasted potential to learn about this content, have the perfect opportunity to apply it... and then just not. Lectures are for the most part kind of unengaging, and after a few weeks or so, he'll just be lecturing to a room with only 15 people in it. If you have high expectations for this course, probably damper them.
CS 162 - Formal Languages and Automata	Shindler	Absolutely. If you're looking for the science part of Computer Science, I strongly recommend that every CS major take it.	 I think this course is so incredibly fundamental that I would recommend that everyone in CS take it. Computational complexity theory is just so all-encompassing in the field that I really think you’d be missing out on a good chunk of CS if you skipped this course. You go over NFAs, PDAs, recognizability, NP-completeness, etc. A good chunk of this class is dedicated to proof-writing, so be wary of that. However, every proof has an established formula to it, so you don't have to worry too much. Just make sure you practice outside of class.
CS 165 - Project in Algorithms and Data Structures	Goodrich	Yes, especially if you're into algorithms.	A really nice "survey course" about the topic of experimental analysis. Your main goals during the projects are to implement algorithms, benchmark them, and then write a report about your findings. If you're really into the "translating theoretical ideas into practice" space, I think that you'll get quite a lot out of this course. If you like algorithms as a field, definitely take this.
CS 166 - Quantum Computation and Information	Fukuzawa	Yes.	The first third of the course is on fundamentals, the second third dives deeper into the principles of quantum information, and the final third is on the actual algorithms. The topics can definitely be intimidating, especially if your linear algebra background isn’t great. However, I think what really makes this course stand out is the ability for the instructors to break down complicated topics into digestible formats. If you have any interest in this topic, you will like the course. Strongly recommend if you want to step outside your von Neumann architecture comfort zone.
CS 171 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence	Kask	If you intend to take CS 175 or CS 179, sure. Otherwise, maybe not worth your time. It's not a bad course, but I reckon there's better options.	Man was this course disorganized. Course is very outdated, with the projects being up in Python 3.5 or something like that. I would not recommend this course on that basis alone if not for the fact that the content, although superficial, is incredibly important to the field of AI. However, there is considerable overlap with other courses you might have already taken or will take, which kind of diminishes the identity of this course even further. Lectures are rather unengaging, but whatever. The project is probably the best part for learning. Do more than the bare minimum on it, experiment with strategies to get the best performance.
CS 177 - Applications of Probability in Computer Science	Sudderth	Must take. Nearly every other course I've made the "Yes" recommendation on the condition that you are interested in the content of the course. I think every CS major should take this course, period. The content is way too useful and applicable to miss out on.	Despite being in the CS 17X series, this class isn't just for the AI/ML enthusiasts. I think it's for everyone in CS --- there are applications to computer graphics, algorithm analysis, and discrete processes. You learn about a topic (such as a continuous distribution) and then it’s immediately followed up by an application of said topic. The homeworks are primarily application-focused. I honestly believe you don’t need much of a background from STATS 67 to succeed here, as long as you have at least rudimentary familiarity with the content. Overall, it’s a really great course that opens your eyes to the vast possibilities of probability applications.
CS 178 - Machine Learning and Data-Mining	Ihler	Must take for anyone interested in AI/ML.	An impressive and comprehensive introduction to the field of machine learning. The content of this course is extremely dense, but Ihler will distill all that content down to its bare basics when it comes time to do homeworks and exams. Despite this, the exams are still quite difficult, so be warned. The course typically introduces the concepts of machine learning to you right out of the gate, then you spend the next several weeks diving deeper into several models that can be trained on the data sets, as well as tricks to make them perform better. This is an intimidating course, but it will truly broaden your perspectives by the end of it — you will learn a lot. Make sure you have a strong background in calculus, linear algebra, and statistics. You don't need them to get a good grade, but you will need them if you want to actually understand what's happening.
CS 179 - Algorithms for Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models	Ihler	Must take for anyone interested in AI/ML.	This course effectively takes the Bayesian networks and Markov chains you were introduced to in CS 171… then cranks them up to 11. Probabilistic graph models are quite huge for simulation and inference. Monte Carlo methods, Ising machines, and Hidden Markov Models are all quite fundamental to the field of AI. This is about as close to a graduate course as you’re getting with undergraduate courses. Be warned that the content is not trivial and that you’ll probably need at least some extensive math background to understand the inner workings of some of the things he’s talking about. However, you will learn a lot in this course if you put the effort in to follow along. Don't worry about your grade in this course --- it's basically a free A. Focus on the content.